Add OTel GenAI framework support to LLM Observability docs (#35974)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/llm_observability/instrumentation/otel_instrumentation.md

</ul>
</div>

> ### Tested frameworks and libraries

Reviewer: Consider promoting this to H2. As a standalone reference section, it sits at the same conceptual level as `## Examples`, `## Attribute mapping reference`, and `## Supported semantic conventions` — not nested under `## Setup`.

```suggestion
## Tested frameworks and libraries
```

> The following frameworks and libraries have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability through OpenTelemetry. Any framework that emits [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans is supported, even if it is not listed here.

Reviewer: "even if it is not listed here" uses directional language ("here") that breaks when content is chunked for AI retrieval.

```suggestion
The following frameworks and libraries have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability through OpenTelemetry. Any framework that emits [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans is supported, even if it does not appear in this list.
```

> The following frameworks and libraries have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability through OpenTelemetry. Any framework that emits [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans is supported, even if it is not listed here.

Reviewer: The two opening sentences feel slightly disconnected. The second is important — it clarifies this isn't an exhaustive list. Consider restructuring for flow: "The following frameworks and libraries emit [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans and have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability. Any framework that emits compliant spans is supported."

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|
| [OpenAI][20] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-openai-v2`][21] | >= 1.26.0 |
| [Anthropic][22] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-anthropic`][23] | >= 0.51.0 |
| [Google GenAI][24] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-google-genai`][25] | >= 1.32.0 |
| [Google Vertex AI][26] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-vertexai`][27] | >= 1.64 |
| [AWS Bedrock][28] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-botocore`][29] | >= 1.31.57 |
| [LangChain][30] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-langchain`][31] | >= 0.3.21 |
| [LlamaIndex][32] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-llamaindex`][33] | >= 0.14.12 |

> | [Strands Agents][5] | Native | >= 1.11.0 |

Reviewer: `[5]` is used here without being defined locally in this tab block. Add this definition inside the tab block alongside [20]-[35]:

`[5]: https://pypi.org/project/strands-agents/`

[25]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-google-genai/
[26]: https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/overview
[27]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-vertexai/
[28]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/
[29]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-botocore/
[30]: https://python.langchain.com/docs/introduction/
[31]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-langchain/
[32]: https://docs.llamaindex.ai/
[33]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-llamaindex/
[34]: https://www.traceloop.com/openllmetry
[35]: https://pypi.org/project/traceloop-sdk/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|
| [OpenAI][40] | [`@opentelemetry/instrumentation-openai`][41] | >= 4.19.0 |

[40]: https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction
[41]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-openai
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|

> | [Spring AI][50] | Native (via [Micrometer][51]) | >= 1.0.0 |

Reviewer: "via" is on the word list's avoid list — replace with "through".

```suggestion
| [Spring AI][50] | Native (through [Micrometer][51]) | >= 1.0.0 |
```

</ul>
</div>

## Tested frameworks and libraries

> The following frameworks and libraries emit [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans and have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability. Any framework that emits compliant spans is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These frameworks and libraries have been tested with Datadog LLM Observability. Any framework that emits [OpenTelemetry 1.37+ GenAI semantic convention][1]-compliant spans is supported.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Python" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|
| [OpenAI][20] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-openai-v2`][21] | >= 1.26.0 |
| [Anthropic][22] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-anthropic`][23] | >= 0.51.0 |
| [Google GenAI][24] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-google-genai`][25] | >= 1.32.0 |

> | [Google Vertex AI][26] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-vertexai`][27] | >= 1.64 |

Reviewer: Is this right? The other entries have a three-part version number.

```suggestion
| [Google Vertex AI][26] | [`opentelemetry-instrumentation-vertexai`][27] | >= 1.64.0 |
```

[27]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-vertexai/
[28]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/
[29]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-botocore/
[30]: https://python.langchain.com/docs/introduction/
[31]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-langchain/
[32]: https://docs.llamaindex.ai/
[33]: https://pypi.org/project/opentelemetry-instrumentation-llamaindex/
[34]: https://www.traceloop.com/openllmetry
[35]: https://pypi.org/project/traceloop-sdk/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Node.js" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|
| [OpenAI][40] | [`@opentelemetry/instrumentation-openai`][41] | >= 4.19.0 |

[40]: https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction
[41]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@opentelemetry/instrumentation-openai
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}
| Framework | Instrumentation | Supported Versions |
|-----------|----------------|--------------------|
| [Spring AI][50] | Native (through [Micrometer][51]) | >= 1.0.0 |
| [LangChain4j][52] | Native (OpenTelemetry module) | >= 0.31.0 |

> | [AWS Bedrock][53] | [OTel Java Agent][54] | AWS SDK >= 2.2 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [AWS Bedrock][53] | [OpenTelemetry Java Agent][54] | AWS SDK >= 2.2 |
```
